"As we learn to use our minds, we process information through 
certain conditioning. If, for example, we learn music as a 
logical/mathematical exercise-such as learning to play an 
instrument through reading, decoding the relationships of 
symbols, and hence using the instrument to hear music-we 
establish pathways that will understand music only from this 
intellectual framework. If, however, the musical mind is engaged
in early stimulation through such activities as hearing and
responding to music through singing and movement and playing
by ear, then we stimulate music intelligence. Stimulating
music intelligence appropriately from the earliest experiences
is necessary if the pathways are to be built to understand
musical phenomena from a musical perspective. An individual
who can read a piano score with few errors but cannot express
music by ear on the keyboard has learned to use his/her 
logical/mathematical intelligence rather than his/her music
intelligence to understand musical phenomena."

- Music and Intelligence in the Early Years, Feierabend

Device needs to stimulate musical intelligence, not linguistic 
or mathematical. The way students learn music now is fundamentally
flawed. A lot of students learn music as another language or 
as a set of mathematical principles. G is five white notes from C, 
so when I see a C and then a note five above it on sheet music, I 
play G. They don't learn that the interval between G and C is special
and sounds special and feels a certain way. 

We have to get kids before they start leraning music notation, around 
age 5-7. Stimulate the musical creativity aspect of it, let them see 
what affect they are having on the product. What can the child do that 
shows them they are changing something and how they are changing it?

FOCUS ON: 
Rhythm/dancing and singing. 
How do you stimulate rhythm? Have a drum thing that can play a bunch of
different sounds, auto quantizes what they do. 
Musical tenets: rhythm, pitch, harmony and timbre 